Defence ministry officials argue that Lt General Rawat's selection was done purely on merit and had nothing to do with the arm of service to which he belonged.
Whether or not it is acknowledged caste plays a significant role in Rajasthan's politics.
The die has been cast all is over bar the frantic shouting pledging allegiance as Sasikala is anointed the new boss of the AIADMK.
With no other political leader raring to go against Modi Mamata sensed an opportunity to plunge into the national scene and maybe emerge as a pan-India saviour of the common man.
Subscribe now for your favourite magazines
The knives were out with even party chief Amit Shah plotting his ouster but CM Devendra Fadnavis has emerged on top after the massive win in the local body elections
From 10 districts to 31 KCR is hoping the reorganisation move will spruce up governance and also fetch political returns. Will it work?
The ministry's reluctance in granting affiliations seems all the more curious since most of the institutes in question have been certified after final inspections by the Quality Council of India
With the inauguration of the Agra-Lucknow expressway Akhilesh Yadav has a reason to smile.
Tribal infants continue to die in a state with India's best healthcare a startling indictment of the failure of public health schemes.
The Chilkur Balaji temple is a 14th century shrine quite popular with the US visa-seeker crowd (indeed the deity is popularly known as Visa Venkateswara).
A Samajwadi Party-Congress alliance may bolster their poll prospects in UP but it is far from a done deal.
In poll-bound Punjab the Badal government is racing to inaugurate grand memorials for war heroes Dalit icons.
The PMO is shaking up the top echelon at the Railways. The other services are next.
Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad described Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan as the opening batsman of PM Narendra Modi's Team India.
Why a project touted to decongest the drive to airport is at the heart of an intense public campaign in Bengaluru.
The chief minister's home district accounts for nearly all the political murders in the state.
With just a year left to go for the Gujarat polls Chief Minister Vijay Rupani is banking on transparency quick decision-making and a mass connect to protect Modi's legacy.
Including Madhya Pradesh will affect the big rice milling lobbies in Punjab and Haryana. Enlarging the area under basmati cultivation will not only increase output it will also make it difficult for the big players to dictate prices. 
Many of the winners showed that a clean sweep is possible with small changes like cleanest city Mysuru shows that if you penalise citizens they will observe the rules. 
A controversy over the award of the Amaravati contract puts paid to Chandrababu Naidu's hopes of having his dream capital up and running before the 2019 polls.
Rajasthan's primary health sector may be on the mend. Is chief minister Vasundhara Raje's PPP gamble paying off?
Vijayan tells India Today Associate Editor Jeemon Jacob about his performance and priorities in the southern state.
As Kerala's Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is now happy to put development before dogma.
The investigation into the Vijay Mallya bank fraud case is back on track after PM Narendra Modi handpicks the CBI's new SIT.
It's not just about the repeal of the Atrocities Act. The Marathas have more to carp about than the 'Dalit' atrocity that has rallied them.
Announcing the probe Rawat also took a jibe at his predecessor Vijay Bahuguna who is now with the BJP and was at the helm when disaster relief operations were carried out in the state.
The Centre on Wednesday approved an ordinance that imposes penalties for possessing old notes beyond a certain limit and indulging in transactions with banned notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1000.
IAF Chief Raha who was asked about corruption charges plaguing defence deals also lamented that despite probes into the alleged scams over the decades not much could be achieved by the investigating agencies to bring to justice people involved in corrupt practices.
Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar on Wednesday advocated changes in laws and regulations pertaining to online transaction fee as he found it odd that a fee was levied on digital transactions but not on cash payments.
During its visit of affected areas commencing today the team will study the damage caused to agriculture fisheries and infrastructure among others the release said.
The Cabinet on Wednesday approved promulgation of an ordinance to impose a penalty including a jail term for possession of the scrapped 500 and 1000 rupee notes beyond a cut-off.
AMU students led by their union president Faizul Hasan held a demonstration here yesterday and threatened to intensify their stir if government did not fulfil their demand.
In order to beef up security at airports all employees working at these facilities across the country will have to furnish their Aadhaar number to obtain the mandatory Airport Entry Passes (AEPs) used for entry and exit.
Armed robbers posing as CBI officials struck a Muthoot Finance branch here on Wednesday and looted 40 kg gold.
 Mumbai Customs sleuths on Wednesday seized cash totalling around Rs 69 lakh in two separate cases here which included recovery of Rs 25 lakh in 2000 rupee notes.
Local English daily Kashmir Reader hit the stands on Wednesday after it was banned by the Jammu and Kashmir government for nearly three months on the charges that its publication was a threat to peace in the valley.
In 1999 he again got elected to Lok Sabha and became a minister in NDA government from 1999 to 2001.
ED has arrested a manager of a Kotak Bank branch in connection with its money laundering probe in a criminal case of detection of nine alleged fake accounts with deposits worth Rs 34 crore post demonetisation.
 At least 52 trains were running late and 10 rescheduled on Wednesday due to heavy fog in many parts of north India a railway official said.
&quot;China always maintains that preserving the strategic balance and stability in South Asia is conducive to peace and prosperity of regional countries and beyond&quot; she said.
Ex-gratia will be paid to injured. All passengers are being provided with necessary assistance to ensure least inconvenience. Doing our best&quot; tweeted Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu.
Raising questions over railway safety in the country India woke up to another derailment incident on Wednesday as New Delhi-bound Sealdah-Ajmer Express train derailed in Kanpur district of Uttar Pradesh.
Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu on Wednesday ordered a thorough probe after the Sealdah-Ajmer Express derailed in Uttar Pradesh early morning.
At least 148 people were killed as Maoists derailed the Gyaneshwari Express in West Bengal's Midnapore district.
At least 44 were injured when 15 coaches of the Sealdah-Ajmer express train derailed near Rura railway station in Kanpur Dehat district on Wednesday.
The Centre is likely to bring an ordinance on Wednesday to impose penalties for keeping old notes beyond a certain limit.
Workers employed by a builder on Wednesday complained to police that their services were terminated after they refused to accept the salary in demonetised currency notes.
&quot;Many of us could not enter the hall as there was complete chaos. There was also verbal duel with police outside the hall. It was total mismanagement. As many as 30 mediapersons could not enter the venue&quot; said a senior print journalist.
44 persons were injured after 15 coaches of Sealdah-Ajmer Express train derailed in Kanpur Dehat district of Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday.
Speculation about Eastern Army Commander Lt Gen Praveen Bakshi who has been superseded by Lt Gen Bipin Rawat as the next Army Chief taking premature retirement heightened today after he proceeded on leave. 
A CBI court on Tuesday reserved its order for December 30 on the bail petitions of sand mining baron Shekar Reddy and four others who have been arrested on the charge of exchanging unaccounted scrapped Rs 500 and Rs 1000 notes with Rs 2000 notes to the tune crores of rupees.
India on Tuesday said it abides by all applicable international obligations and expects others do the same while responding to Chinese reaction to its test-firing of Agni V missile.
 As India embarks on a massive modernisation plan for its defence forces it has emerged as the second largest purchaser of arms among developing nations after Saudi Arabia a latest Congressional report has said.
A Dalit man and his pregnant wife were allegedly beaten up by members of another community at Ugala village in Gir Somnath district for preventing grazing of their cattle in a farm where the couple has been working as labourers police said on Tuesday.
Sports Minister Vijay Goel was 'shocked at the resolution' appointing 2010 Commonwealth Games scam-accused and former Congress leader Suresh Kalmadi being appointed the life president of the Indian Olympic Association (IOA).
Former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Farooq Abdullah on Tuesday urged the Centre to resume dialogue with Pakistan to resolve all pending disputes &quot;amicably&quot;.
The US national allegedly raped by five men at a five-star hotel here earlier this year identified three of the four arrested accused in a test identification parade on Tuesday police said.
ISRO on Tuesday said it would launch a record 83 satellites in one go using its workhorse PSLV-C37 toward the end of January. 
Suresh Kalmadi was 'life president' of the Athletics Federation of India and president of the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) for 15 years until he was named in the Commonwealth Games (CWG) scam in 2010.
From the first cricketer to score 1000 runs to the first batch of female IAF pilots here’s a look-back at the most talked-about milestones of 2016. 
Let your imagination stay unfettered every day as our 2017 calendar provides you with inspiration and some comic relief on the 1st of every month. 
Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said advancing the date of budget presentation would help getting funds authorised for different sectors at the start of the financial year.
8.91 lakh foreign tourists visited India in November this year a growth of 9.3 per cent over the same month last year indicating that demonetisation move did not impact the tourists footfall adversely.
It's been another helluva year for news. And what better way to look back on 2016 than through some of the headline-making quotes — inspiring straight-from-the-heart or just plain bizarre? 
Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) chief Mayawati may have tried to give a caste spin to the Enforcement Directorate raids but it will not be easy for her to fend off uncomfortable questions on the source of Rs 100 crore found in her party's account.
From PV Sindhu’s Olympic exploits to the surgical strikes on terrorists and black money to those we continue to mourn here’s a look at what caught your attention this year.
Trinamool Congress MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay has been summoned by the CBI on December 30 in connection with a chit fund scam case. 
Licences of around 20000 of 33000 NGOs have been cancelled by the government after they were found to be allegedly violating various provisions of the FCRA thus barring them from receiving foreign funds.
A day after ED detected huge cash deposits in an account belonging to BSP BJP today took a dig at Mayawati saying now it is clear why she was protesting against the demonetisation move.
Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav has sanctioned a financial assistance of Rs 20 lakh each for the families of two journalists who died in the state this year.
The elections will be held for the posts of 853 Zilla Parishad members 6802 Sarpanches 6801 Panchayat Samiti members and 92052 ward members in which 26092507 voters will exercise their franchise.
The tax penalty cess surcharge and deposit under the scheme can only be paid with demonetised notes of Rs 1000 and Rs 500 till December 30 according to the details of the scheme advertised by the Income Tax Department.
As chairman of NITI Aayog Modi has called a meeting of experts to take stock of the economy and get feedback on ways to deal with the problem of cash crunch post demonetisation.
&quot;We will oppose tooth and nail every attempt to deny the citizens comprising those from multi-faith communities the right to live according to their religious convictions and ideals and also carry out a nation-wide system of unified civil code&quot; Musliyar added.
Navy said its prompt response in rescuing passengers on-board the Mumbai-bound flight that veered off the runway at Dabolim Airport in Goa has averted the incident from turning into a &quot;catastrophe&quot;.
They searched and found cash Rs 36 lakh in the denomination of Rs 2000 notes in the vehicle police said adding five persons from here were taken into custody for interrogation.
Here are some of the most popular Indian fake news stories of 2016.
Former Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary P Rama Mohana Rao's house in Chennai's Anna Nagar and office were searched on December 21 by Income Tax officials in connection with a tax evasion probe post demonetisation.
Sacked Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary Ram Mohan Rao on Tuesday questioned the income tax raids against him calling it an assault on the Constitution and asserted that he is still in office.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi is slated to lay the foundation stone of Char Dham highway project in Uttarakhand on Tuesday.
An IndiGo aircraft taxiing to bay after landing in Delhi this morning came face to face with a SpiceJet plane that was taxiing out to take off.
External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj on Tuesday pitched for his immediate of five-year-old Aryan who was taken away from his parents by the Norwegian Child Welfare Department (NCWD) over allegations that he was a child abuse victim.
Father Uzhunnalil who hails from Kerala was abducted in March by terror group Islamic State which attacked an old-age home run by Mother Teresa's Missionaries of Charity in southern Yemeni city of Aden. At least 15 people at the old-age home were killed in the attack.
Shocked to find nearly Rs 100 crore in her Jan-Dhan account in a Meerut branch of a state-run bank a woman on Monday sought the PMO's intervention after the bank officials did not attend to her complaint and kept asking her to come some other time.
&quot;AAP seeking withdrawal of its accounts submitted to the authorities vindicates our stand. Arvind Kejriwal should make things clear right away as he has all through claimed to be champion of transparency in polity&quot; Tiwari said.
Indrani Mukerjea the prime accused in the Sheena Bora murder case on Thursday walks out of jail after Special CBI Court allows her to perform father's last rites.	
The Railways has sent a letter to the West Bengal government stating that from now on the state has to take responsibilities f[r all ongoing and upcoming projects of the suburban system as well as Metro Railway.
A Jet Airways 9W 2374 aircraft from Goa-Mumbai reportedly with 161 passengers including seven crew members onboard skidded off the runway at Dabolim Airport.
At least 2 trains were cancelled and 32 others arriving late on Tuesday due to heavy fog in the many parts of north India sources in the Northern Railway said.
Meanwhile Congress has called for a meeting of opposition parties today over note ban after which a press conference will be held. 
Enhancing the financial aid in train accident the government has amended the rules under the Railways Act of 1989 to double up the amount in case of death or physical disability like loss of limbs.
Congress on Monday announced it will hold country-wide protests on January 5 at all district headquarters and on January 8 at the block level to highlight the common man's woes due to demonetisation and the &quot;personal corruption&quot; by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday detected cash deposits totalling over Rs.104 crore in an account belonging to the BSP and Rs 1.43 crore in an account belonging to party supremo Mayawati's brother Anand in a branch of United Bank of India here sources in the Enforcement Directorate said.
NITI Aayog on Monday said the government has provided Rs 367.93 crore to Odisha and Rs 200 crore to Bihar as special assistance.
The government is likely to come up with an ordinance to penalise anyone caught in possession of old Rs 1000 and Rs 500 notes worth more than Rs 10000 after December 30 the last date to deposit demonetised currency notes in banks. 
Nine women including a minor girl were injured one of them seriously in an acid attack between two group of villagers allegedly over possession of a panchayat land at village Bhui on Monday police said.
Four persons including a tourist guide have been arrested in the capital on charges of sexually assaulting a US tourist in March this year police said on Monday.
Haryana Police said it has solved the case of loot of Rs 5 lakh from near village Sinhpura in Kurukshetra district and arrested four persons including an Assistant Manager of a private bank who happened to be the alleged gang leader.
Describing former IAF chief S P Tyagi as a &quot;sound professional&quot; Air Chief Marshal Arup Raha on Tuesday said he should not have been treated like a &quot;common criminal&quot;.
Jammu and Kashmir State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) today directed all Deputy Commissioners to submit reports about those blinded during the summer unrest in the valley.
As the year ends drably in money queues can India look ahead to a flush 2017 with magic returning to the mundane?
As the Supreme Court returns to bench on the first Monday of 2017 the first big story will probably be the irreversible change in the gentlemen’s game ushered in by the top court.
Fortunately or unfortunately grossing Rs 100 crore at the box office has now become a benchmark of success for films in Indian showbiz industry particularly Bollywood. 
A historian who identified a 4500-year-old iconic bronze figurine as Parvati has also claimed that the tradition of Hindu women applying sindoor (vermilion) on their forehead dates back to the Harappan era.
 An earthquake of magnitude 3.5 struck Uttarakhand on Monday with tremors felt in state capital Dehradun and its neighbouring Uttarkashi district officials said. No major loss of life or property has been reported so far.
Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh on Mondya claimed that people have supported Prime Minister Narendra Modi's &quot;bold step&quot; to demonetise high-value currency notes and his fight against black money and corruption.
Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Monday said demonetisation will help the government in increasing revenue and enable it to pump in more money in welfare schemes for the people.
An Indian Catholic priest abducted from Yemen this year appealed to Pope Francis and the Union government through a purported video to secure his release from his captors.
Veteran BJP leader and former MP Chief Minister Babulal Gaur on Monday called upon party workers to gather information of 'benami' properties of politicians bureaucrats and industrialists and share the same with Prime Minister's office (PMO).
Though our scientist claim that Agni V has a range upto 6000 kilometers foreign researchers say that India has downplayed its capabilities to avoid causing concern to other countries and the missile' actual range is up to 8000 kilometers.
India successfully test-fired for the fourth time nuclear-capable Agni V missile on Monday that can reach Beijing and much of Europe bringing a step closer production of a weapon designed to strengthen its nuclear deterrent.
Demonetisation could very well be the biggest boost for digital India since the arrival of the internet in India 21 years ago.
Besides Gandhis other accused — Motilal Vora Oscar Fernandes Suman Dubey and Sam Pitroda — have denied the allegations levelled against them.
 In a major heist thieves broke open the safe of public sector Indian Overseas bank (IOB) in Tholassery here and decamped with Rs 27 lakh in old and new currency notes police said on Monday.
In his 'Mann Ki Baat' address Modi yesterday said the law against Benami property will be turned into an 'incisive law' to deal with such properties.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi will take stock of the economy with experts at NITI Aayog on Tuesday against the backdrop of currency crunch post demonetisation and discuss ways to speed up growth. 
The Kerala government on Monday said that the entry of Bhumata Brigade chief Trupti Desai will not be allowed in the Lord Ayyappa temple Sabarimala even as the activist plans to lead 100 odd women to the famous hill shrine in Sabarimala.
Thirty-one people were injured in the stampede at the Lord Ayyappa temple here Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran said on Monday and maintained that there was no lapse on the part of police.
Rejecting a claim of citizenship of the accused who was issues the card in view of his long residence in the country Calcutta High Court has on Monday ruled that Aadhaar Card is not a proof of citizenship.
The 53-year-old AAP candidate who would be contesting from Cuncolim in South Goa has been announced as chief ministerial face of the party for the state Assembly polls due in early 2017. 
At least 17 trains were rescheduled and 40 others were running late on Monday due to heavy fog in the many parts of north India a railway official said.
A special court on Monday granted bail to former IAF chief S P Tyagi who was arrested in AgustaWestland VVIP chopper scam case on Rs 2 lakh surety and other usual clauses.
At Palam it was zero visibility at 5.30 AM and it improved to 100 meters at 8.30 AM.
Surface-to-surface nuclear capable ballistic missile Agni-5 is capable of reaching the northern parts of China.
Unlike other missiles of Agni series the latest one 'Agni-5' is the most advanced having some new technologies incorporated with it in terms of navigation and guidance warhead and engine.
Automated control systems are key components needed to ensure the safe operation of the nuclear power plant. They include a range of special tools for safety and regular operation mode maintenance.
Immediately after PM’s talk show Finance Minister Arun Jaitley defended the PM saying his speech was misinterpreted in some parts of media.
A married man allegedly committed suicide by jumping before a train in the district as he was fed up with the abuse he was receiving on WhatsApp railway police said on Sunday.
The domestic flights have also been severely affected. The NCR region and north India are facing chilly conditions affecting normal life.
uspected militants shot dead a person in north Kashmir's Baramulla district on Sunday night police said.
 At least 143 people lost their lives in 919 accidents on Yamuna Expressway in 2015 but only one out of every 769 vehicles was found to be overspeeding and challaned during that year an RTI enquiry has shown.
The Mehbooba Mufti-led government in Jammu and Kashmir has decided to quash the ban on a well-known English daily Kashmir Reader. 
The national capital on Sunday experienced the coldest day of December in last five years with the maximum temperature settling at 15.4 degrees Celsius six notches below the season's average. The Met Office has forecast similar weather for the next few days.
With the Central govt making NEET (for Medical seats) compulsory more private matriculation schools are opting to switch over to CBSE in Plus two level a senior education department official said.
Describing tourism as the best mean to promote people-to-people engagement Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti today said her government was making efforts to create a world-class tourist infrastructure.
Urging people to switch to digital methods of payment Union Minister for Electronics and Information Technology Ravi Shankar Prasad on Sunday said digital economy is honest governance.
 At least 20 Sabarimala pilgrims were injured in a &quot;minor stampede&quot; at the famous hill shrine of Lord Ayyappa this evening which witnessed a heavy rush of devotees.
India is set to test its indigenously developed intercontinental surface-to-surface nuclear capable ballistic missile 'Agni-5' from the Wheeler Island off Odisha coast on Monday.
Uttarakhand received the season's first snowfall on Christmas on Sunday while the lower areas were lashed by moderate showers causing a sharp dip in temperatures across the state.
Misconceptions regarding Muslim Personal Laws need to be removed both among the Muslims as well as non-Muslims in the country said secretary of AIMPLB.
 Over Rs 35 lakh cash in new Rs 2000 notes and 2.5 kg gold have been seized from six persons at Panvel on Sunday police said.
Trying to calm the jangled nerves FM Arun Jaitley went to great lengths clarifying that there is no intention of the govt to impose tax on long-term capital gains from share transactions.
Five-year-old Aryan son of an NRI couple living in Norway who was taken into custody by the Norwegian Child Welfare Department on December 13 from his kindergarten school is still at a foster home. 
With the introduction of new IT facilities citizens would get 170 e-services through 'Atal Seva Kendras' in Haryana.
In an embarrassment to Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah a video of a person tying his shoelaces at an event here has gone viral prompting opposition BJP to dub him as 'arrogant' and 'pseudo-secularist.'
Restrictions on withdrawal of cash from banks and ATMs are likely to continue beyond December 30 as currency printing presses and RBI have not been able to keep pace with the demand of new currency notes.
Popular tourist destination Shimla on Sunday received the season's first snowfall while the lower hills across Himachal Pradesh were lashed by rain bringing the temperature down by several notches.
CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Sunday took a swipe at Modi Government asking whether observing 'Good Governance Day' meant increasing the troubles of people as has happened post demonetisation. 
A 23-year-old woman software engineer working with an IT firm here was hacked to death by an unidentified assailant barely some metres away from her office on the outskirts of the city.
Shell out a little more even if you want a middle seat in flights with airlines charging extra for preferred seats as they look to increase their ancillary revenues amid stiff competition.
Seven people were killed and six listed missing in two fireworks-related explosions in China in which 16 others also suffered injuries.
Unaccounted cash to the tune of Rs 51.86 lakh almost all of them in Rs 2000 denomination was on Sunday seized by Kerala Excise officials from two passengers of a bus coming from Bengaluru at nearby Irrity in the second major haul of currency in the last three days in the state.
The pair were fatally shot at a house in Purwakarta 100 kilometres (62 miles) east of the capital Jakarta after allegedly resisting arrest.
Rains on Sunday lashed some parts of Punjab and Haryana even as the minimum temperature rose by several notches above normal in both states.
The 'economic blockade’ called by the United Naga Council has crippled Imphal for the last 50 days. 
The CBI had accused the former state Chief Minister of approving additional floor space index for Adarsh society in return for two flats for his relatives.
Delhi University is likely to conduct B.Com admissions through entrance test in the new academic session.
Realty major Tata Housing has tied up with private equity firm Macquarie Group to set up a Rs 2000 crore fund to be used for the company's luxury housing projects.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday announced lucky draw schemes for people who use digital payment methods including e-banking mobile banking and e-wallets.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi is addressing the nation for the 27th time through his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio programme. 
 Noting that functioning of industrial units in residential areas is harmful the National Green Tribunal has directed the Delhi government and the Delhi Pollution Control Committee to take action against all such units operating without consent.
The incident came to the fore last mid-night after the girl's body which was cut into pieces was recovered from Kazipura Haji Kasam Chawl in Nagpada area.
Paper money is becoming a passe as the year comes to an end. The New Year brings in the promise of India going cashless with the population of 1.3 billion being pushed into a digital economy.
 A new biography of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee one of modern India’s most intriguing politicians looks at the hardline roots behind his liberal image.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday wished his Pakistani counterpart Nawaz Sharif on his 67th birthday even though India and Pakistan have been witnessing a severe chill in their relations.
A Delhi court has ordered action against erring police officials for failing to serve summons to the complainant in a case of alleged manufacture of fake soft drinks of popular brands saying the cops did not make a serious effort to trace the man despite technological advancement.
Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar on Saturday said he was on tenterhooks and could not sleep a wink the night the army carried out surgical strikes on terror launch pads in Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir on September 29.
In a series of tweets Prime Minister Narendra Modi heaped praise on the senior BJP leader for his selfless service and leadership.
The NITI Aayog on Saturday said the government will launch awards under the Lucky Grahak Yojana and Digi-Dhan Vyapar Yojana in 100 cities from Sunday which will be spread over 100 days.
President Pranab Mukherjee on Saturday greeted people on Christmas.
Following a complaint by the grandfather of the deceased boy a case of negligence was filed against three women cooks with Katangoor police station the Inspector said.
Accusing the Delhi Police for not taking his client's case seriously the advocate of the 25-year-old American gangrape victim said he and his client were not happy with the investigation.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that if the evils of corruption and black money had been tackled by the previous governments he would not have been forced to take a tough decision like demonetisation.
In order to promote cashless transaction the first 'Digi Dhan' mela will be organised in Gurugram on December 26 where customers will be able to purchase items only by making digital payment.
Four people associated with the firm were arrested late evening after questioning a DRI official said.
 Amid talks of a grand alliance for upcoming Uttar Pradesh polls Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar on Saturday had a dig at the Congress Samajwadi Party and Rashtriya Lok Dal saying demonetisation by Narendra Modi has left them in no condition to contest on their own strength.
In a gazette notification the Home Ministry said the new rules will be applicable to minority communities- Hindus Sikhs Buddhists Jains Parsis and Christians- from Pakistan Afghanistan Bangladesh and living in India on Long Term Visa.
Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered case against a Surat-based financier Kishore Bhajiawala in connection with recovery last week of Rs 1 crore in new currency notes during searches by the Income Tax department on him and others.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to travel to Patna in January for Prakashotsav to mark Guru Gobind Singh's 350th birth anniversary celebrations and will likely share the stage with Bihar CM Nitish Kumar
Arun Jaitley said that the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council has made 'significant progress' on the provisions relating to the indirect tax regime and resolution of the &quot;one difficult issue&quot; of dual control or cross empowerment that deals with assessee jurisdiction is not far off.
He also referred to a letter written to him by Munish Raizada a US-based medico and suspended AAP member pointing out that donors' records have gone off the party website since June 2016. Raizada also launched 'no chanda' (no donation) satyagraha at Raj Ghat today.
President Pranab Mukherjee on Saturday said real empowerment of women would be possible only through education encouragement of economic self-dependence and provision of opportunities.
In the backdrop of the SBI Colony at Nerul in Navi Mumbai going fully cashless the State Bank of India has now selected Shirki village in Pen Taluka Maharashtra for driving Aadhaar-based merchant payments.
The state government and the Centre will ink agreements for new railway projects worth Rs 45000 crore in the state Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu said at a function organised in Mumbai.
Modi said his November 8 decision to recall 500 and 1000 rupee notes was a &quot;big attack&quot; against those who have been milking the country's economy for their vested interests.
Facing backlash over its plan to make ten stations &quot;cashless&quot; Delhi Metro on Saturday said the plan would not strip commuters of choice as there will be options of using cash in Ticket Vending Machines and counters.
In a fight between the Centre and State- the medical seat aspiring students of Karnataka are facing the fire. As per the apex court’s decision NEET was conducted last year in English and this year it will be held in nine languages – English Tamil Hindi Assamese Bengali Gujarati Marathi Tamil and Telugu.
During counting of notes at the store room of the police station it was discovered that nearly Rs 14.60 lakh in now-scrapped notes were missing Senior Superintendent of Police Nitin Tiwari said.
Sand-mining baron Shekar Reddy along with his another associate Srinivasulu was arrested by CBI on December 21.
Congress Vice-President Rahul Gandhi on Saturday slammed the central government's decision on demonetisation of high-value currency notes saying the decision is &quot;anti-poor&quot; and favours 50 corporate families. He said demonetisation &quot;is a firebomb on country's cash economy&quot;.
Ahead of the Budget Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday favoured increasing the tax contribution from various market participants in a &quot;fair efficient and transparent way&quot; and promised more &quot;sound and prudent policies and reform measures&quot;.
According to the recommendation by the apex body for Child Rights a candidate must produce a certificate from his child's school to prove that his/her ward is enrolled there and has regular attendance.
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday laid the Foundation for a Rs 3600-crore grand memorial for Shivaji Maharaj off the city coast an event that comes a few months ahead of the civic polls and amid tussle among parties to claim the legacy of the 17th century warrior king.
The INS Sahyadri stealth frigate and the Indian Army's Poona Horse cavalry regiment were affiliated at a ceremony here on Saturday an official said.
How could anyone in India name their son after a man who ordered so much bloodshed in India?
 Busting a currency exchange racket police have seized Rs 39.98 lakh in Rs 2000 denomination notes at Tirur area in the district and arrested a man already facing a hawala case in this connection.
US President Barack Obama has signed into law the USD 618 billion defence budget for 2017 which enhances security cooperation with India and conditions nearly half of the funding to Pakistan on a certification that it is taking demonstrable steps against the Haqqani Network.
A Delhi court on Saturday granted bail to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in a case of allegedly giving false information in an affidavit filed in the run up to 2013 Assembly polls.
Minister of State for External Affairs VK Singh on Friday announced new set of rules to ease out the application process for passport.
Taking serious view of a false complaint by a teenage girl against her father charging him of rape a district court here has ordered perjury proceedings against her.
Former Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary Ram Mohan Rao - who was sacked following I-T raids at his residence in disproportionate asset case - was admitted in ICU at SRMC hospital on Saturday.
According to the Northern Railway official Nanded-Amritsar Sachkhand Express was delayed by 14 hours the Jogbani-Anand Vihar was running over 13 hours behind schedule Sikkim Mahananda Express and Udyan Abha Toofan Express were over 12 hours late.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj memorial at an island in Arabian Sea off Mumbai coast on Saturday.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be on a day's visit to Maharashtra on Saturday where he will lay foundation stone for the grand memorial of Maratha warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and the metro rail projects in Mumbai and Pune.
Tamil Nadu Police have formed five teams to nab the culprits who had fled from the scene.
The Delhi Police arrested a man on Friday who was on the run since Wednesday after killing a teenager in his car police said.
Sujal Baran Nag's (62) daughter was in a relationship and he committed suicide at his residence at Natunbazar locality after his prospective son-in-law's family informed him that they were cancelling the marriage proposal.
Constantinos Pantos has given birth to her daughter's baby girl becoming the world's oldest such surrogate mother.
The department has seized cash and jewellery worth over Rs 505 crore during the same period even as the new currency seized is valued at more than Rs 93 crore.
External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj who is recovering from a kidney transplant surgery found herself directing Indian ambassador in Norway to take up the matter at the 'highest level' of an Indian child taken away by Norwegian authorities for alleged parental abuse.
&quot;I can tell you that this programme is very important part of OBOR initiative and China holds an open attitude for such cooperation. We have seen reports about other countries who are willing to join the programme. We want to discuss this with wider consultants and consensus&quot; she said.
External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj who has 6.8 million followers on Twitter is known for extensive use of this social media platform to reach out to Indian in distress abroad or people needing anything related to her ministry.
India on Friday said it was ready for talks with Pakistan on any issue provided that country creates an atmosphere for fruitful dialogue and stop taking help of violence and terrorism.
“Those who were shortlisted for the interview were asked to get down in the drain and display their skills in cleaning the sewage or clean the road with a broom” said Ajit Saini an applicant.
Telangana Chief Minister K Chnadrasekhar Rao on Friday said the state should become number one in the country in cashless transactions and appealed to people to make it happen. 
The CBI on Friday registered a case against two officials of a bank controlled by BJP MP Pritam Munde and some others following the recovery of Rs 10 crore in demonetised notes in the city last week. 
Chairman of the Aditya Birla Group Kumar Mangalam Birla on Friday expressed ignorance about the charge that his firm had paid bribes to the then Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi an allegation Rahul Gandhi had made a couple of days ago.
The suit second in barely a week has been filed before the court of Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ballard Pier 36th Court through his lawyer Abad Ponda.
 Buying selling or transporting liquor earlier attracted a jail of three years earlier with a Rs 1000 fine... Now the term has been extended to ten years jail and fine lakh Rs fine.
Post-demonetisation 67 per cent of Indians are buying their New Year parties online but the note ban has in no way dampened the spirit of people gearing up to welcome 2017 according to a survey.
Income Tax officials are probing 600 Jan Dhan accounts in Bihar and Jharkhand for their suspected naxal connection after they showed a total deposit of over Rs 10.8 crore following demonetisation.
Eight years after it was first proposed by the Cong-NCP government Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday perform the Jal Poojan for a 192 mt tall statue of Maratha warrior king Shivaji. 
Mamata Banerjee has termed the deployment of CRPF personnel for providing security to Income Tax officials as 'unconstitutional and illegal'.
DMK President M.Karunanidhi was discharged from Kauvery Hospital on Friday and has returned to his home.
The distance between Raj Niwas – the official residence of Delhi Lieutenant Governor – and the Ministry for Home Affairs at the North Block is around 9 km. Even during peak hour traffic you can travel the distance in 20 minutes flat. But 24 hours after Najeeb Jung’s office announced he has quit as Delhi L-G officials at MHA say they are yet to receive any resignation letter.
HYDERABAD (Reuters) - Vasudeva Prakash left his job as a mechanic in Hyderabad three years ago for what he calls a more lucrative career: taking part in clinical trials on generic drugs.
MUMBAI (Reuters) - The government has appointed Viral V. Acharya a professor of economics at New York University as one of the Reserve Bank of India's four deputy governors for a term of three years according to a statement on Wednesday.
REUTERS - Indian shares rose for a second consecutive session on Wednesday extending a rebound as bargain-hunting investors bought shares in sectors including healthcare that were hit hard in a recent selloff.
NEW DELHI (Reuters) - A train derailed in Uttar Pradesh (U.P.) on Wednesday injuring at least 43 people police and rail officials said at least the third such accident in recent weeks that has raised concerns about the safety of the ageing rail network.
DHAKA (Reuters) - Police in Bangladesh have arrested five suspected Islamist militants believed to be plotting to attack New Year celebrations a counter-terrorism police chief said on Wednesday.
NEW DELHI/MUMBAI (Reuters) - As India's biggest corporate showdown heads from the boardroom to the courtroom and brings in a Who's Who of the country's legal profession ousted Tata Sons chairman Cyrus Mistry vows a multi-layered battle for governance reforms at the $100 billion conglomerate people close to him say.
MUMBAI (Reuters) - Tata Sons on Tuesday accused its former chairman Cyrus Mistry of breaching confidentiality rules and said it would take legal action against him intensifying a battle between the conglomerate and the top executive it sacked in October.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Asia stocks followed Wall Street higher on Wednesday while the dollar firmed against the yen following the release of upbeat U.S. economic data overnight.
BEIJING (Reuters) - Quoting a poem by the founder of Communist China Mao Zedong China's government said on Wednesday that the efforts by Hong Kong and Taiwan independence supporters to link up were doomed to fail as they would be dashed to the ground like flies.
TAIPEI (Reuters) - China's sole aircraft carrier has arrived at a naval base on the southern Chinese province of Hainan a senior Taiwanese military officer said on Wednesday after drills that took it around self-ruled Taiwan an island China claims as its own.
Research conducted by two Jadavpur University professors has revealed that a large number of street-dwelling children in Kolkata are engaging in sex work to make ends meet. Their customers? Rich school-going teenagers. The research was conducted on 150 homeless children aged 9-14.
A number of mail and express trains of Eastern Railway were diverted through different routes today owing to derailment of 15 coaches of Sealdah-Ajmer Express near Rura station in Kanpur-Tundla...
Dubai's famous Gold Souq a prime market for gold has been witnessing almost a complete absence of visitors from India due to the November 8 currency ban according to a report by Gulf News.
Shiv Sena today asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure that the proposed law against 'benami' properties would not hit the common man as hard as the demonetisation measure that has "harried the...
From January 1 all individuals working at airports across the country will have to furnish their Aadhaar number to obtain the mandatory Airport Entry Passes (AEPs) used for entry and exit.
Having more than 10 banned notes will become a criminal offence after March 31 under a new rule approved by the government today. The Specified Bank Notes Cessation of Liabilities Ordinance or...
In what will be a busy year of state elections economists are slashing India's growth forecasts because Prime Minister Narendra Modi's unprecedented cash clampdown is denting demand. The experiment...
Former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister and seasoned BJP leader Sunderlal Patwa died in Bhopal today after suffering a heart attack in the morning. He was 92.
Odisha ordered the cull of more than 2500 chickens and other poultry after four dead crows and three dead poultry tested positive for the highly pathogenic H5N1 virus officials said on Tuesday.
Dense fog and cold waves continued affect train services in North India as at least 52 trains were running late and 10 rescheduled on Wednesday morning.
Rahul Gandhi addresses media over demonetisation.
Rahul Gandhi's list of questions for Prime Minister Narendra Modi today included how much black or untaxed money has come back into the system since November 8 when 500- and 1000-rupee notes were...
Chief Executive of tech-giant Google Inc Sunder Pichai is expected to visit alma mater IIT-Kharagpur in January next year the institute's director confirmed.
Rahul Gandhi addresses party workers on 132nd Foundation Day of Congress in New Delhi.
Senior BJP leader and Union Minister M Venkaiah Naidu has dismissed the Congress-led meet of eight parties against demonetisation as a "fake attempt for unity" and said it would never succeed.
Hours after 14 coaches of Sealdah-Ajmer Express derailed near Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur on Wednesday morning Union Minister of Railways Suresh Prabhu has ordered a detailed inquiry over the incident.
Over 40 people have been injured after 15 coaches of Sealdah-Ajmer Express derailed near Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh early this morning two of the coaches falling into a dry canal bed police said. The...
Over 40 people have been injured after 15 coaches of the Sealdah-Ajmer Express derailed near Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh this morning.
The Bihar government on Tuesday gave its nod for implementation of 50 per cent reservation in both subordinate and superior judicial services in the state.
Jharkhand drinking water and sanitation minister Chandra Prakash Choudhary on Tuesday said by 2018 every household will have drinking water and by 2022 drinking water supply through pipes will be...
A division bench of High Court on Tuesday ordered hearing by a single-judge bench on a Gujarat University petition seeking quashing of a Central Information Commission order to provide information on...
 Indian Air Force Chief Air Chief Marshal Arup Raha on Wednesday said his scam-tained predecessor S.P. Tyagi was like a "family member" but if corruption charges in the AgustaWestland helicopter deal were proven against him the force would have no sympathy for its former chief.
 An Indian teacher was found dead after he allegedly committed suicide at his apartment here in the UAE a media report said today.
 Normal life was affected in Tripura's Dhalai district on Wednesday due to a 12-hour shutdown called by the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in protest against the killing of one of its local leaders.
 Army Chief Dalbir Singh on Tuesday visited the Army Training Command`s headquarters at Shimla as a part of his farewell visits prior to relinquishing office in the end of the year.
At least 2 died and over 65 were injured after Sealdah-Ajmer Express derailed between in Rura near Kanpur on Wednesday. Rescue and relief operations are underway. Here are all the LIVE updates:-
 Raking up the AgustaWestland scam the BJP on Wednesday countered Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi`s demands on note ban crisis and asked him to first answer who benefited in the 2012-13 VVIP chopper deal.
 Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal Arup Raha on Wednesday said the Pathankot terror attack earlier in January this year was the first setback adding that they are now better prepared having learnt lessons from the same.
Hailing the Centre's demonetisation move the Janata Dal (United) on Wednesday said the party fully supports Prime Minister Narendra Modi`s decision and would not comment on the issue before the completion of 50 days.
As India embarks on a massive modernisation plan for its defence forces it has emerged as the second largest purchaser of arms among developing nations after Saudi Arabia a latest Congressional report has said.
Jammu & Kashmir High Court on Wednesday directed the Mehbooba Mufti-led state government to immediately release separatist leader Masarat Alam Bhat.
 This picture of Indrani Mukerjea has gone viral on social media and several other websites.
The Election Commission of India (ECI) may announce dates for upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhand Punjab Goa and Manipur on December 30. 
Union Railways Minister Suresh Prabhu on Wednesday directed senior officials to provide all necessary assistance to those injured after 14 coaches of the Sealdah-Ajmer Express train derailed near Rura railway station in Kanpur dehat district in the wee hours of Wednesday.
At least 52 trains were running late and 10 rescheduled on Wednesday due to heavy fog in many parts of north India a railway official said.
Defence expert Major General (retired) SR Sinho has called on the Indian Army to attack the posts of its Pakistani counterpart if ceasefire violations continue.
After his demonetisation decision on Nov 8 PM Narendra Modi has declared an open fight against black money holders.
At least 2 people died and over 65 were injured after Sealdah-Ajmer Express derailed between Rura-Metha near Kanpur on Wednesday. Rescue and relief operations are underway. 
At least 2 persons were killed and 65 others were injured when 15 coaches of the Sealdah-Ajmer Express train derailed on Wednesday morning near Rura railway station in Kanpur dehat district.
The Chief Ministers`Committee on demonetisation which is headed by Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister N.Chandrababu Naidu will meet in the national capital on Wednesday. 
In yet another horrific incident ANI reported that as many as 15 coaches of Sealdah-Ajmer express have derailed near Kanpur.
The Cabinet today approved promulgation of an ordinance named 'The Specified Bank Notes Cessation of Liabilities Ordinance' to impose a penalty including a jail term for possession of the scrapped 500 and 1000 rupee notes beyond a cut-off. The Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi also approved an ordinance to amend the RBI Act to extinguish the liability of the government and the central bank on the demonetised high-denomination notes to prevent future litigations. Official sources said the ordinance has been cleared but did not say if the penal provisions would apply for holding the junked currency after the 50-day window to deposit them in banks ends as of December 30 or after March 31 till which time deposit of old currency notes at specified branches of the Reserve Bank after submitting a declaration form is open. The penalty for holding old currency in excess of 10 notes may include financial fines and a jail term of up to 4 years in certain cases. While announcing the demonetisation of the old currency on November 8 the government had allowed holders to either exchange them or deposit in bank and post office accounts. While the facility to exchange the old notes has since been withdrawn depositors have time till Friday to deposit the holding in their accounts.
Abheet Singh Sethi A worsening of the security situation in Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) the signing of a $8.9-billion (Rs 60520 crore) deal for French Rafale fighter jets and new deals for artillery were among the top five determinants of Indias uncertain security situation in 2016. India made many high-profile defence purchases in 2016 and carried out much-publicised surgical strikes against Pakistan-based terrorists but an IndiaSpend examination of defence data revealed gaping security holes. India became the world's fourth-largest defence spender in 2016 with a military budget of $50.7 billion (Rs 3.4 lakh crore) -- nine times the health budget for the same year -- an increase of 8 per cent over 2015 ($46.6 billion or Rs 3.2 lakh crore) according to the 2016 Jane's Defence Budgets Report released by the UK-based research firm IHS Markit.  India's 2016 military budget was around a quarter of China's $191 billion or Rs. 13 lakh crore. Here are the five top reasons that made India feel more (and less) secure in 2016: 1. J&K security situation deteriorates after surgical strikes The Indian Army conducted surgical strikes -- as the government called them -- against terrorists within Pakistan-administered Kashmir on September 30 2016. Since then at least 33 Indian security-personnel have been killed in J&K according to data collated by IndiaSpend from various news sources. As many as 71 Indian security forces personnel were killed this year by terrorists in J&K as of November 27 2016 up 82 per cent since 2015 when 39 soldiers were killed according to data tabled by the Home Ministry in the Lok Sabha. Injuries among security personnel doubled since last year to 208. Incidents of terrorist violence in J&K increased 47 per cent to 305 in 2016 from 208 in 2015. The data indicates that terrorist activities increased over 2016 in J&K compared to 2015 IndiaSpend reported on November 25 2016. 2. 36 new Rafale 120 Tejas jets cleared; Indian Air Force currently short of 200 aircraft India signed a $8.9 billion (Rs 60520 crore) deal with France to purchase 36 Rafale fighter planes forming two squadrons of the Indian Air Force (IAF). The IAF is down to 32 fighter squadrons the lowest in a decade NDTV reported on February 26 2016. It should have 42 squadrons or around 670 to 750 aircraft. The IAF also inducted two indigenously developed Tejas Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) and hopes to add on six squadrons (120 aircraft) of the Tejas by 2022. The government is reportedly looking to buy up to an additional 200 single-engined fighter aircraft (10 to 11 squadrons) of foreign origin to be produced in India. 3. India buys 250+ artillery guns needs at least 3000 The Defence Ministry approved the production of 114 Dhanush howitzers in June 2016 the first artillery system purchased by India since the Swedish Bofors gun in the mid-1980s a deal that was embroiled in much controversey and lost then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi the1989 general elections. The Dhanush is based on the Bofors gun. India also signed a deal to purchase 145 ultra-light M777 howitzers from the US for $737 million (Rs 5000 crore). The M777 is in fact the successor to the Bofors gun. The Indian Army requires 3000-3200 howitzers of various calibres as envisaged under a 17-year-old plan. 4. Missiles: A major hit and a major miss India successfully tested the 5000-km range Agni V (Fire) on December 26 2016 bringing it one step closer towards being formally deployed by the Strategic Forces Command. The nuclear-capable Agni V is an intercontinental ballistic missile capable of reaching all parts of Pakistan and China IndiaSpend reported in May 2015. However on December 21 2016 a test of the 1000-km ranged subsonic nuclear-capable Nirbhay (fearless) land-attack cruise missile failed. Out of four Nirbhay tests three failed. India's entry into the Missile Technology Control Regime -- an international agreement which will allow New Delhi to trade in high technology -- in June helped pave way for India and Russia to extend the range of the jointly developed supersonic BrahMos missile beyond 300 km. 5. Submarine modernisation inches forward Indian Navy requires 20 more The much delayed INS Kalvari the first of the six French Scorpene-class submarines being manufactured in India is undergoing sea trials and might be commissioned early in 2017. India now has 14 operational submarines according to Indian Navy data and requires 20 more as IndiaSpend reported in July 20 2015. The Scorpene project suffered a setback after nearly 22000 classified pages explaining the submarines' combat and performance capabilities were leaked by an Australian newspaper in August. The Navy said the leak was not critical. India reportedly attained a nuclear triad -- the capability to launch nuclear weapons from land air and sea -- by quietly commissioning the nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine INS Arihant in October. The Indian Navy commissioned INS Chennai the third and last of the Kolkata class destroyers. India also signed a deal with Russia to purchase four guided-missile stealth frigates.  (In arrangement with IndiaSpend.org a data-driven non-profit public interest journalism platform. Abheet Singh Sethi is a Mumbai-based freelance writer and defence analyst. The views expressed are those of IndiaSpend. Feedback at respond@indiaspend.org)
Being laid off can be devastating but it’s critical that you recover fast. Mumbai-based Vinayak Gawade knows the experience well. The 31-year-old pre-sales tech official lost his job in March 2016 when the company he was working for shut shop. “I didn’t panic focused on my positive aspects and started looking for another job immediately” he says. It is a good strategy. At the same time it is important to chart out a quick plan on rejigging your finances since you don’t know how long it will take to find another job. Here’s a guide on the essentials you need to take care of. MANAGE YOUR FINANCES Have an emergency corpus: Whether the spectre of a lay-off is looming or not make sure you have a contingency corpus equal to six months’ expenses at your disposal. If you suspect that the job market is shaky shore up another six months of loan EMIs. “I had an emergency corpus of Rs 1 lakh which helped me when I lost my job but now I have made sure that I also have funds to cover six months of loan EMIs” says 31-year-old Soham Bhagwat who was laid off in March 2014 after his Pune-based firm decided to discontinue the project. Get an independent health insurance: It’s another step you need to take before you lose your job. Don’t be secure in the knowledge that your company is providing group health cover to you and your family. If you suddenly find yourself jobless and you or any family member faces a medical emergency before you land another job you will have to pay from your pocket and may not have sufficient resources to cover the expenses. Slash expenses and form a new budget: This is the first step you need to take if you get the pink slip. Depending on your savings and fund availability you will have to reframe the household budget. Bhagwat did so immediately. “We cut down on eating out movies and daily expenses. We used my wife’s salary to cover the household expenses and allocated the final settlement from my previous job to pay the home loan EMI of Rs 20000” he says. Make sure you give priority to fixed expenses like insurance premium loan EMIs investments and utility expenses and slash discretionary expenses drastically. You can also assign the settlement money from your previous job for fixed or household expenses. Sell assets take loan against investments borrow from family: If you don’t have an emergency corpus dip into your bank savings. If it’s insufficient sell some of your assets or redeem investments like mutual fund units. You could also take a loan against assets such as fixed deposit PPF insurance gold or property. The interest rate is not as high as that of a personal loan and you retain your assets. Do not however dip into your retirement savings and avoid taking personal loans or maximising your credit cards which come with a high interest rate. The last is a misstep that Gawade is still recovering from. “I had recently got married and was low on savings. My wife was not earning and I had to incur medical expenses for my father. So I used my credit card for household expenses and I still owe Rs 80000” he says. Bhagwat on the other hand borrowed Rs 17000 from his friends which he has already repaid. Vikas Verma from Pune depended on his father to repay his home loan EMI and the rental income from his house to pay for his daily expenses. He lost his job in March this year and is still looking for a suitable replacement. Reschedule loan EMIs and insurance premium stop investments: Among the most difficult financial obligations to fulfil if you don’t have a regular income are loan EMIs insurance premium and investment instalments like mutual fund SIPs. If the finances are too constrained stop your investments temporarily. Since the insurance premium cannot be avoided for fear of the policy lapsing find out from the insurer if you can alter the periodicity of payment or reduce the cover amount temporarily. As for home or vehicle loans you can request your bank for a temporary EMI holiday till you get a new job or reduction of the EMI amount by increasing the loan tenure. Besides consider the option of loan protection plans which cover your loan against emergencies such as these. Take help from family friends: Being unemployed can be very stressful and cause depression besides loss of confidence and self-worth. “It is critical to look after your health both mental and physical during this period. Don’t hesitate to seek the support of your family and friends to keep healthy” says Bhaduri. Agrees Chakravarty: “Don’t withdraw socially and ignore family or friends. It’s also important not to indulge in over-eating drinking or heavy borrowing to retain your sanity.” "Don’t panic if you lose your job and make sure you start saving the moment you begin working” Vinayak Gawade 31 Mumbai Lost job in: March 2016 Found a new job in: May 2016 Skills used to find new job * Posted resume on online portals. * Reached out to official network.  Survival tactics while unemployed * Borrowed from friends. * Used savings to pay home loan EMI. * Used credit card for household expenses. MANAGE YOUR CAREER First try within the organisation: If you think you are likely to be laid off due to poor performance “seek counselling from the company and request an opportunity to improve” says Chakravarty. “This aspect is within the employee’s control and he should try to mend fences or increase commitment” says Sharma. If this doesn’t work and you have to quit try to find internal postings in other departments of your organisation. “If you have the required skills show that you are willing to learn and are good at internal networking you can proactively approach other teams or business units and see if you fit into a new role” advises Sharma. Update resume tap online portals: If you can’t find a suitable role in your existing firm begin an aggressive search outside. Rebuild your resume update your professional online profile and tap online job portals. “I immediately put up my resume on job sites and got a response within a couple of months” says Gawade. Reach out to professional network family friends: Another good avenue to exploit is your professional and personal network. Reach out to your former teachers colleagues friends associates and even family members. “Those who are proactive and network well are the ones who get picked up fast” says Bhaduri. “However remember that networking is not a one-day job. It has to be done every day of your working life” adds Sharma. Take part-time job not the first job offered: When you are desperate for a job it is easy to succumb to the first offer that comes along. “You need to be flexible about designation money sector and location. The more the number of fixed variables you have the lower your chances of securing a job” says Bhaduri. However don’t grab the first job offer especially if it doesn’t match your skills or offers a very low salary. “If you had been getting Rs 60000 a month in your previous job and the new one offers Rs 10000 you will find it very difficult to reach the earlier level” says Bhagwat. On the other hand don’t hesitate to opt for a part-time job. “Take it up for multiple reasons. It will not only help keep your finances intact but importantly your confidence as well. The job will offer a sense of self-worth and provide financial emotional and social cushion” says Bhaduri. You can take up tuitions teach art or singing write a book even take up part-time teaching jobs in private and professional colleges or universities that invite visiting faculty. Upgrade skills: Another important thing you can do to enhance your employability is to upgrade your skills by taking up a short professional course. It will not only allow you an additional leverage but also widen the spectrum of jobs you can apply for. “I have taken a two-month course in investment banking and hope that it will help me get a better job” says Verma. Explore hobbies entrepreneurship: Finally the interim period may provide a good opportunity to tap your passions hobbies and other skills. “A lot of people don’t get time to explore these while working in a regular job. If pursued these hobbies and interests can help network and result in a new line of full-time employment” says Sharma. So by all means stage dance performances take up art classes in professional colleges write for media publications or take oratory classes. The only thing you should not do is give up hope and lose confidence. Whichever means you employ or route you take accept the challenge head on and pursue the search for a new job proactively and passionately. You may have lost a job but you could win a new and better opportunity. "Don’t go for a job that offers a lower salary than the previous one as it will be hard to jump to the same level” Soham Bhagwat 31 Pune. Lost job in: March 2014 Found a new job in: March 2015 Skills used to find new job * Put up resume on online job portals. * Good networking among friends/family. Survival tactics while unemployed * Cut expenses on eating out movies daily spends. * Dipped into bank savings. * Used wife’s salary for household expenses. * Used final settlement from previous job for home loan EMIs. WHAT NOT TO DO ON LOSING YOUR JOB Here are the things you should avoid if you want to maintain your mental and financial balance as well as land a good employment offer. Don’t panic or stress out Financial obligations can push you into depression but if you allow yourself to lose control it will show in the interviews for the new job. Focus on your skills and be proactive in finding a job instead of waiting for a call or moping. Don’t avoid creditors If you have debts be it credit card bills or loan EMIs don’t go into hiding. Meet your bank or financial institution and request a restructuring to suit your payment ability. The bank is likely to oblige if you’ve been a trusted customer. Don’t dip into retirement corpus At no cost dip into your retirement savings because even after finding a job you are unlikely to rebuild the corpus immediately losing out on the investment opportunity. Don’t take the first job The temptation might be strong but avoid the desperate bid for the first job that comes your way if it offers a very low salary or does not suit your skills. You will take a long time to raise your income and become frustrated. Don’t badmouth your employer No matter how unjust your dismissal do not badmouth your boss or organisation. If word gets around you will find it hard to find a new job because no one wants a whiner and you would have burnt your bridges with your employer as well. Also Read: Why job loss is a real threat and how to manage finances career if you are dismissed COMPENSATION & TAXATION If an employee with more than a year’s service is laid off he should be given a month’s notice or salary according to the Industrial Disputes Act (IDA). He is also eligible for compensation equal to 15 days’ pay for every completed year of service. If the employee falls in the higher tax slab after receiving the compensation he can get relief under Section 89 and Rule 21 A. Under Section 10 (10B) of the I-T Act the maximum exemption he can avail of is Rs 5 lakh with the excess amount being taxable as salary income subject to relief under Section 89. To claim relief under Section 89 the employee must fill the Form 10E and submit it to the existing employer who deducts tax at source. As per Rule 21A (4) only those cases are considered where the terminated employee has been in employment for at least three years and the balance period of employment on the date of termination is also at least three years. (With inputs from Hiral Thanawala) 
MUMBAI: Home loan seekers may be in for a windfall with mortgage companies set to embark on an interest rate war amid a slump in the cost of funds as a consequence of demonetisation in the process acting as a tonic for the moribund real estate sector.Mortgage companies like Housing Development Finance Corp (HDFC) Indiabulls Housing Finance and DHFL may slash rates by 25-50 basis points in a few weeks as they are under pressure to push growth amid sluggish demand said industry executives familiar with the matter. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point."Demonetisation has inadvertently helped cut funding costs for us as we raised cheap money from bond market" said Indiabulls Housing MD Gagan Banga. "We should be able to pass on benefits of lower borrowing costs to customers as we expect higher home loan demand in coming quarters." He didn't say what the new rates would be. Demand for homes and home loans slumped after the Centre announced on November 8 that Rs 500 and Rs 1000 notes would cease to be legal tender. 56211376 This blocked the flow of black money into real estate traditionally a key store of unaccounted wealth. On the other hand the flood of deposits due to demonetisation has helped lower the cost of funds across the board.To be sure real estate prices may have to drop appreciably before prospective home buyers take the plunge even with lower rates given that demonetisation has turned Indians into penny pinchers amid cash shortages.Housing finance companies on average have seen borrowing costs fall 25-30 basis points in the wake of demonetisation with companies raising funds via bonds and commercial paper. Indiabulls Housing raised Rs 500 crore by selling bonds at 8.3 per cent in November having got Rs 150 crore selling debt at 8.55 per cent about two months ago according to Prime Database."In October and November incremental borrowing costs have come down for companies tapping the bond market" said Keki Mistry vice-chairman and CEO of HDFC India's largest mortgage lender. "Housing finance companies will also see increased opportunity for credit expansion in coming quarters. Lower borrowing costs will bring down lending rates across the industry." On November 11 HDFC raised Rs 2000 crore at 7.8 per cent 32 basis points lower than what it paid to raise Rs 1000 crore a month earlier according to Prime Database."It is expected to provide the much-needed fillip to the real estate and housing finance industry by expanding credit flow and home ownership" said DHFL CEO Harshil Mehta. "The sector is set to reap benefits of these stellar initiatives in the coming years."Given that there have been rate reductions by banks and housing finance companies themselves during the year the additional rate cuts should be welcomed by borrowers."Lowest interest rates offered by HFCs have come down by around 30-40 bps in the current financial year" said Karthik Srinivasan senior vice-president of rating agency ICRA. "We expect them to react to rate cuts by banks and offer competitive pricing to prospective borrowers."
MUMBAI: Realty developer EMGEE Group has acquired over 100 acres of land parcel near Mumbai as it forays into the affordable housing segment. The company plans to spend nearly Rs 1600 crore to build 25000 affordable homes over the next five years in the first phase. "Affordable housing is the need of the hour and the current market scenario has established that demand continues to be strong in this segment. Our target is to build a total of 1 lakh affordable homes over the next 10 years" said Mudhit Gupta CMD EMGEE Group. The company has already procured development rights for 100 acres in Neral and Shahpur near Mumbai. The developer is also in advanced stage of negotiations for acquiring development rights of further 200 acres in the Kalyan-Dombivali belt. EMGEE is planning to build these affordable homes in the price range of Rs 8 lakh to Rs 14 lakh with a configuration of 300 sq ft to 500 sq ft each unit which will help homebuyers in these projects qualify for benefits of credit-linked subsidy scheme under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY). Under the Prime Minister's vision of Housing For All by 2022 the government has announced various benefits including interest subsidy of up to Rs 2.2 lakh for homebuyers. Under the credit-linked subsidy scheme beneficiaries of economically weaker sections (EWS) and low income groups (LIG) seeking housing loans would be eligible for an interest subsidy at the rate of 6.5% for a tenure of 15 years or during the tenure of loan whichever is lower on the initial Rs 6 lakh. The construction work for the first phase of both projects in Neral and Shahpur is expected to commence in January next. While certain approvals including non-agriculture certification for the land have been received the company is looking to launch the project after securing all the requisite approvals. “The approval process has already started. But we have always launched our projects only after getting permissions. We will be in compliance of RERA (Real Estate Regulatory Act) even if it’s being implemented after April 2017” said Gupta. The developer is looking to finance total expenditure of Rs 1600 crore through internal accruals construction finance and private equity capital. "We are in advanced stage of talks with private equity funds for these projects. Based on the discussions we can see that there is substantial appetite for affordable housing projects among institutional investors. We have negligible debt on our books and that allows us room to leverage for future growth" Gupta said. With increasing urbanization and rising demand for affordable housing for low income and economically weaker sections the market for this segment is expected to touch over $100 billion per annum over the next 5 to 7 years showed a study conducted by PwC Naredco and APREA. Given the shortage of homes in affordable category the government of Maharashtra has proposed to use the salt pan land to build affordable and low-cost housing projects. It has set a target to build 1.5 lakh houses to relocate project-affected people and slum-dwellers and also generate nearly one-third of the housing needs for middle and higher-income category through this initiative.
MUMBAI: Registry and financial services provider Link Intime India has picked up nearly 60000 sq ft office space in commercial complex 247 Park -- now owned by Blackstone Group -- in the Vikhroli suburb of Mumbai on lease said two persons familiar with the development. The total lease tenure is nine years with a clause of rental reset with 15% appreciation every three years. The company will be paying Rs 115 rental per sq ft a month taking the annual lease to Rs 9 crore. “The deal is concluded and was registered recently. Link Intime will start operating from this space in the next few months” said a person mentioned above. Link Intime India confirmed the transaction while an email query to Blackstone remained unanswered till press-time. Transaction advisor Knight Frank India declined to comment for the story. “Initial lease tenure is five years with appropriate clause for resetting the lease rental at regular interval on mutually agreed terms. Would not like to discuss specific lease rental amount on monthly/yearly basis” Link Intime said in an email response. The transaction is part of the company’s expansion plan and it will be shifting its office from Bhandup to this new place on completion of fit-outs the response said. Link Intime India one of the largest players in the Initial Public Offer (IPO) and corporate registry industry currently operates from its office in one of the industrial complexes in Mumbai’s Bhandup suburb. With this deal for a larger space with a capacity to accommodate around 450 employees the company will be shifting this office to 247 Park. Apart from Mumbai the company has total six offices across cities including Ahmedabad Coimbatore Kolkata New Delhi Pune and Vadodara. Last year private equity major Blackstone Group the biggest owner of office space in the country bought the commercial complex 247 Park for over Rs 1050 crore. The 1.1 million sq ft property was earlier owned by Milestone Capital and HCC Real Estate in the ratio of 74:26. Following this acquisition Blackstone has spent Rs 25-30 crore to upgrade the office building. The commercial real estate market in India has been growing at a steady pace in the backdrop of positive changes in policy and regulations have given a further boost to the sector. Last year proved to be a record year with commercial real estate witnessing the highest ever annual office absorption of around 35 million sq ft. In the recent July-September quarter information technology and IT-enabled service companies continued to lead office space transactions accounting for more than half the space take up. Banking financial services & insurance along with engineering & manufacturing accounted for a share of about 10% each with transactions mostly in Mumbai and Chennai. 
 DUBAI: Hinduja Group flagship Ashok Leyland has launched Oyster staff bus in Saudi Arabia the third product from India's second largest commercial vehicle manufacturer in the kingdom in six months. The automaker had launched Falcon 66 seats and 56s school bus in July Oyster midi-41 seater school bus in November and now come up with Oyster 33 seater staff variant. "We are launching Oyster in a phased manner. Our products are received well in the kingdom and it is satisfying to see customers coming back for repeat purchases. This stands testimony to our promise on better comfort safety and higher profitability to customers" said Rajive Saharia President Global Sales and Distribution of Ashok Leyland said. "Ashok Leyland products together with our strong after sales network is an excellent proposition for our customers" Arshad Pathan Global Marketing Head Western Auto said.
MUMBAI: Starting next month anyone with a mobile will be able to transfer funds by merely using the mobile number of the recipient. The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) has integrated the *99# messaging-based mobile banking service with its Unified Payments Interface (UPI) allowing transfer of money with minimum details. Currently feature phones are not used for everyday payments despite there being a platform that allows use of USSD (Unstructured Supplementary Service Data) messaging for the purpose. USSD is the messaging platform that prepaid customers use to check their talktime balance. The problem in using it for banking is that it requires inputs of several dozen characters such as 16 digit account number 11 digit IFSC code recipient's name and seven digit Mobile Money Identification Number (MMID). The UPI which was launched a few months earlier aimed to address this problem by linking the account identifiers (A/c number IFSC code name) to an 'alias' which includes mobile number and email. However the limitation was that the service was available only on banking applications which needed smartphones with internet connections. Now with NPCI bringing UPI to feature phones someone with Rs 1000 handset can reap the benefits of instant payments. This 'optimised USSD' will be launched on January 30 with a new brand name by the PM. "The only condition is that the bank should have joined the UPI platform. With this even if the customer holds a basic feature phone he can still avail the benefits that were hitherto available only for those with smartphones" said AP Hota MD & CEO NPCI. If the account holder keys in the recipient's mobile number the UPI platform will retrieve the recipient's name from its server helping the sender authenticate the number. "The messaging can be done in English or Hindi. The customer will be given a choice when he first connects and subsequent messages will appear in the preferred language" said Hota. Because of the cumbersome procedure involved in sending money the USSD platform was used largely for balance enquiry. The non-financial transactions were around 1.5 lakh before November 8 but rose to six lakh transactions post-demonetisation. However only a few thousand account holders used it every day for sending money. As compared to this UPI despite a smaller user base has seen its daily transactions increase eight-fold from around 10000 in early November to 80000 a day. According to Hota electronic transactions are continuing to grow even after money has started flowing out of banks. "We are seeing around 13 lakh unique users doing 21 lakh transactions a day up from four lakh transactions a day" said Hota. 
NEW DELHI: Calendar 2017 promises to be way different from the year gone by as two key aspects are going to change in the domestic economy: the way we pay for goods and services and the taxes we pay on them. Some market veterans see an early opportunity for equity investors in businesses that support a cashless environment and the ones that are likely to benefit from the demonetisation drive. Ace investor Porinju Veliyath for one said it would be the biggest theme for investors in calendar year 2017. The MD & Portfolio Manager at Equity Intelligence India said he was bullish on companies affected by the cash ban as well as those which are likely to benefit from the move. The domestic equity market is at an inflection point along with the economy but uncertainties are likely to haunt the market going forward. In an interview with ETNow Porinju said the Nifty50 would see a reasonable bull run in 2017 and investors should use any dips to buy stocks. The uncertain period created in the market by demonetisation appears to be over and organised sectors are likely to benefit most from the same Porinju said. He said retail investors in equities should pick up momentum in 2017 and Indian households are going to emerge the biggest investors in equities. Top stocks bets: Porinju is bullish on select infrastructure stocks such as J Kumar Infra and Sunil Hitech. He said investors should keep railway stocks such as Texmaco and Titagarh Wagons on their watch list. He continued to hold Talwalkars as he sees no impact on the business from the recent economic developments. Investors can also look at smaller well-managed companies such as Saksoft Datamatics Bombay Burmah Trading Corporation HSIL TCI Orient Cement with a long-term view.
NEW DELHI: Three little-known stocks surprised equity investors in the domestic market in the calendar year gone by by generating over 500 per cent return when the broader market kept struggling to notch up gains amid a multitude of global as well as domestic headwinds. Semiconductor design services firm Moschip Semiconductor reported loss in the last financial year yet the stock is ending calendar 2016 as the top performer among all the listed stocks on the bourses. Fiberweb (India) manufactures carrier bags and garbage bags and is still in the early stages of growth with its bottom line doubling and trebling on a year-on-year basis. No wonders then the stock is ending the year as the second best performer. Another little-known stock Kushal Tradelink saw its stock price grow 505 per cent during the year even as the paper industry began to look up from a long phase of depression amid a drop in raw material costs. These star performers delivered eye-popping returns during the year. Sample this: if you had invested Rs 100000 in any of these stocks in December last year the same would have swelled to Rs 600000 in these 12 months. So what powered these wealth-creation stories in 2016? Have a look: Moschip Semiconductor Technology: The company is ending calendar year 2016 as top performer among all the listed players on the bourses. The stock soared 624 per cent to Rs 52.45 on December 26 2016 from Rs 7.24 on December 31 last year. Thus an investment of Rs 10000 made in December last year in the company’s stock would have grown to over Rs 70000 by the end of 2016. It is the first publicly-listed semiconductor design services company with over 15 years of extensive design experience across segments such as aerospace & defence consumer electronics networking and telecommunications mobile communications IoT and semiconductor industry. For the year ended March 31 2016 the company reported a net loss of Rs 11.94 crore against a net profit of Rs 0.36 crore in the year-ago period. Top line figures of Moschip fell to Rs 5.36 crore during the quarter from Rs 6.98 crore in the year-ago period. The company bounced back to record profits in the September quarter reporting a consolidated net profit of Rs 0.36 crore against a net loss of Rs 2.04 crore in the corresponding quarter last year.  Fiberweb (India): Fiberweb (India) shares advanced 519.59 per cent to Rs 151.80 from Rs 24.50 during the same period. Apart from manufacturing and exporting garbage bags and carrier bags the company has established its flagship unit for spun-bond nonwoven fabrics being the first of its kind in India. The company was incorporated in 1985. Net profit of the company jumped 3.50 times to Rs 7.10 crore in FY16 compared with Rs 2.03 crore reported for the previous year.  Kushal Tradelink: With over 505 per cent return in 2016 the scrip jumped from Rs 80.60 in December last year to Rs 487.80 as of December 26. The company was formed in 2000 with the objective of dealing into various types of papers viz. kraft duplex news print waste cromo art paper. During April-March 2016 its net profit soared 15 times to Rs 98.99 crore from Rs 6.57 crore in the same period last year. For the September quarter the company reported a net profit of Rs 58.30 crore against Rs 0.98 crore reported for the same quarter last year. Benchmark equity indices BSE Sensex and NSE Nifty were down nearly 1 per cent for the year as of December 26. 
 NEW DELHI: Poised to become the world's largest base of developers India has overtaken the US this year in terms of online search for courses preparing people for mobile app development tech giant Google today said. Search queries on mobile development courses from India saw 200 per cent y-o-y growth in the last two years with Karnataka Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra leading with bulk of queries from India Google said in a statement. "...the interest in learning development courses for mobile platform saw huge uptake in demand in India. In 2016 India overtook the US to become the largest country in terms of interest in mobile developer courses" it added. India which has about one million people working on solutions for the Android mobile platform is poised to become home to about 4 million developers by 2018 making it the worlds largest developer base Google had previously said. A K Sharma to assume additional charge as CEO of NICDIT A K Sharma the CEO of the Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor Development Corporation (DMICDC) will take additional charge as the CEO of the new National Industrial Corridor Development and Implementation Trust. NICDIT is the apex body formed to oversee the development of all industrial corridors across the country. "The apex body will help streamline activities and better coordination of the industrial corridor projects" said Sharma. The NICDIT has also been sanctioned an additional Rs 1584 crore for project activities DMICDC said in a statement.
 NEW DELHI: Extending a helping hand to people facing cash crunch regulator Irdai has asked life insurance companies to provide an additional window of 30 days to policy holders for paying premium. Following withdrawal of legal tender character of old Rs 500 and Rs 1000 denomination notes from November 9 government has put restrictions on cash withdrawals from banks and ATMs. Currently a person can withdraw up to Rs 24000 in a week. Amid the cash crunch Life Insurance Council had approached the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai) to extend grace period by an additional 30 days for all the policies falling due between November 8 and December 31 2016. After examining the representation and keeping in view the inconvenience to policyholders Irdai has allowed "the extension of grace period by an additional 30 days for all the policies issued by life insurers the premium/s of which fell/falls due on or after November 8 2016 till December 31 2016". The regulator said that the special one-off dispensation is given so that policyholders do not suffer from non-payment of due premiums due to recent cash crunch. "All life insurers are advised to comply" said the Irdai circular addressed to CEOs of the Life Insurance Companies. This follows a move by the Reserve Bank to provide additional 60 days for repayment of housing car farm and other loans worth up to Rs 1 crore. This is applicable to loans payable between November 1 and December 31 RBI said in a notification.
CHENNAI: When Rajashree Muthukumar (all names have been changed) wanted to adopt she faced a lot of opposition from her family.But her workplace proved surprisingly supportive. In the late 1990s her company -a clothing manufacturer -created their maternity and adoption policy purely for her benefit. Two decades later only a few companies in India are treating adoption on a par with maternity leave.Among the jet-setting few is Accenture which on Monday announced that it will provide 22 weeks leave irrespective of whether the child is biological adopted or birthed through surrogacy. Accenture joins a club of corporates such as Standard Chartered Citibank Barclays Murugappa group and HCL who choose to give 22-28 weeks leave for adoption surrogacy. Accenture on Monday increased its adoption leave from the current eight weeks to 22 weeks and included a clause that puts surrogacy leave at 22 weeks. The move gains particular significance as the current statutory requirement is at three months or 12 weeks. According to the 2016 Working Mother and AVTAR 100 Best Companies for Women in India 70% of the companies offer paid leave to adoptive mothers. And among these the ones that are most adoption friendly are IT majors banks insurers FMCG players and automotive chemical companies. While some companies choose to give parents as much as 28 weeks leave others give their workforce one week leave said the study. On average Indian companies choose to give their workers nine weeks leave to celebrate the latest entrant to their family. IT majors like HCL Tech lead the pack with 26 weeks surrogacy leave -on a par with maternity.Not far behind is Infosys with 16 weeks for the primary caregiver. International banks such as Standard Chartered Citibank and Barclays who choose to give between 22 and 28 weeks leave have a liberal adoption policy globally. In India they retain the same guidelines -proving highly beneficial to heterosexual couples who want to adopt couples in a live-in relationship same-sex couples and the rising population of single dads. Barclays which has revised its maternity policy from 84 days to 154 days introduced adoption leave in 2014. “Employees regardless of being natural or adoptive parents can avail this benefit as can any primary caregiver“ said a Barclays representative. The phrase “primary caregiver“ is potent with the promise of gender neutrality and anti-discrimination. With these two words companies now are treating same-sex couples on a par with hetro-normative couples. Godrej which has a gender-agnostic or neutral policy identifies parents as primary and secondary caregivers instead of identifying them as moms and dads. This new path-breaking change would mean that same-sex couples get leave on a par with a new mother when they identify themselves as a primary caretaker. “Our Adoption policy offers sufficient flexibility to enable Godrejites make a comfortable transition to resume work and responsibilities. Our policy is unique as two males who are adopting a child will also benefit from our over-arching policy“ said Sumit Mitra head group HR and corporate services Godrej Industries. At Mondelez India mothers who choose to adopt get three months leave versus six-month maternity leave.But the company is offering a 15-month-flexi work option for all new parents irrespective of whether they chose to adopt. Family-run business Murugappa Group also offer 24 weeks for adoption. “Women workforce participation is directly impacted by such policies. Companies need to be more discerning and look at the lifecycle of each employee. We need to legitimise each personal milestone. Employers need to be proactive about attraction retention of growth of women“ said Saundarya Rajesh founder of Chennaibased advocacy and HR consulting firm AVTAR Group.
Minister of State for External Affairs MJ Akbar on Wednesday said India is committed to rediscover its past and make it a "very essential" part of the world's future.
Seeking a white paper on demonetisation Congress today posed several questions to the Prime Minister including how much black money has come in. 
The Union Cabinet today cleared the promulgation of an ordinance under which possessing transferring of receiving an amount of Rs 10000 in banned...
The Pune police on Tuesday arrested two persons from an apartment in Pune's Chakan area for illegally keeping the snakes.
The government on Wednesday appointed Viral V Acharya as the deputy governor of the Reserve Bank of India.
Demonetisation: 'No cash' 'Under maintenance' 'Out of order' and many such boards continue to be displayed outside ATM kiosks in most of the cities
In the wake of the Sealdah-Ajmer Express derailment a look back at some of the worst train accidents in Indian rail history.
Demonetisation: This holiday season banks in India seem to have become the most preferred holiday destination for Non resident Indians.
The Jammu and Kashmir-based English daily Kashmir Reader hit the stands on Wednesday after the ban imposed on it 3-months ago was lifted. 
Demonetisation has pushed the country into a cash crunch and many senior citizens have been compelled to switch to digital transaction.
It was the mother of all battles as Ratan Tata and Cyrus Mistry fought a public battle to control the reins of country's biggest business conglomerate.
It was a busy year for Home Minister Rajnath Singh and his team mates as the Ministry of Home Affairs dealt with cases ranging from terror to erring NGOs.
Congress vice President Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday slammed government said that Prime Minister's demonetisation drive is hurting people.
Former Madhya Pradesh CM Sunder Lal Patwa passes away at 92 after suffering a heart attack on Wednesday news agency ANI reported.
In a series of tweets Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu said that victims of Ajmer-Sealdah Express accident in Kanpur will be paid ex-gratia
Google CEO Sundar Pichai will visit IIT Kharagpur in January 2017 the institute director said.
The website of Thiruvananthapuram airport as restored after a group calling themselves the 'Kashmir Cheetah' attacked them.
Activist Teesta Setalvad might court arrest if the Human Resource Development ministry files cases against her for allegedly spreading disharmony.
An earthquake of magnitude 4.2 struck Andaman Islands region earlier on Wednesday news agency ANI reported.
Post note ban banks want cash restrictions to stay even as the withdrawal deadline is about to end
The Saeldah-Ajmer express has derailed at the Rura station in Kanpur's Dehat district on Wednesday morning killing two and injuring over 60. 
A Cabinet meeting on Wednesday is likely to pass an ordinance to formalise the decision on demonetisation.
Responding to Chinese reaction to its test-firing of Agni V missile India said its strategic capabilities were not targeted against any particular country
Senior BJP leader and Union Minister M Venkaiah Naidu -dismissed the Congress-led meet of eight parties against demonetisation as a "fake attempt for
Harsh Vardhan inaugurated the 24th National Children's Science Congress (NCSC) at Vidyapratisthan's Institute of Information Technology in Baramati. 
A section of employees of the currency printing press at Salboni in West Bengal has informed the authorities that they will not be working beyond nine-hour
Mumbai Police today filed a 60000-page charge sheet in the QNet scam case in which former billiards champion Michael Ferreira is one of the accused.
Jharkhand drinking water and sanitation minister Chandra Prakash Choudhary today said by 2018 every household will have drinking water.
Lt Gen Praveen Bakshi who has been superseded by Lt Gen Bipin Rawat as the next Army Chief taking premature retirement heightened today after he proceede
A Dalit man and his pregnant wife were allegedly beaten up by members of another community at Ugala village in Gir Somnath district for preventing grazing.
Sebi registered Foreign Institutional Investors Qualified Foreign Investors registered Foreign Portfolio Investors and long-term investors are allowed to purchase securities on repatriation basis.
Officials said the agency arrested the manager of the bank’s branch in the Kasturba Gandhi Marg area late on Tuesday night after questioning.
Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi demanded on Wednesday that the government repeal a daily cash withdrawal limit and pay out compensation to poor families hit the hardest by a shock recall of high-value currency last month.
The Union cabinet cleared on Wednesday an ordinance to penalise those found holding a “high amount” of scrapped banknotes.
Hailing the government’s demonetisation drive the Janata Dal (United) on Wednesday said the party supports Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision and would not comment on the issue before the completion of 50 days.
Former Union minister Sunderlal Patwa had a cardiac arrest and was found unconscious on Wednesday morning and was rushed to a private hospital where he was declared ‘brought dead’.
As part of the 2014 hiring process the employer Premier Medical Group and its recruiter Arthur Marshall Inc expressed interest and concern about the way Singh looked the suit alleges.
Police on Tuesday arrested one of the members of a gang that had been breaking into banks across the state post demonetisation announcement. The accused was identified as 20-year-old Sunil Singh a resident of Sonepat.
Pinaki Ranjan Bharati from North 24 Parganas certainly thinks he has been ‘nominated and selected’ for the Nobel Peace Prize and even declared it in affidavits submitted to the Election Commission of India.
With assembly polls round the corner the election commission (EC) has started raiding chemists across the state to check distribution of habit-forming drugs. The poll panel is of the view that such drugs could be used by parties to woo voters.
Uttarakhand is likely to go to the polls along with Uttar Pradesh early next year.
An eerie silence prevailed in this village amid threats looming large over two brothers who have offered land for Wednesday’s really of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the bastion of chief minister Parkash Singh Badal.
The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal began a three-day tour of Punjab on Tuesday. Kejriwal will address a rally at Lambi the constituency of the Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal on Wednesday where he may announce candidature of Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh against the chief minister.
The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday said that Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi’s seeking a reply from Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the government’s demonetisation drive is ridiculous and that he is obsessed with demonetisation.
The cabinet also approved ordinance to amend the RBI Act to extinguish the liability on the old notes.
Hey news junkies! Confident you can do better than your friends at Rediff.com's utlimate yearend news quiz? Here's your chance to show off.
Sukanya Verma lists the lessons Bollywood taught us this year.
The Government on Tuesday expressed shock at the appointments of Commonwealth Games (CWG) scam accused Suresh Kalmadi and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Abhay Chautala as life presidents of the Indian Olympic Association (IOA).
Here's looking at superstars who have played fathers in the movies.
James Wilson explains why Indians are destined to silently suffer the cash shortage for half a dozen more months. 
Kim's white monokini; Irina's topless swimsuit or Bella's denim outing -- take your pick.
Taking inspiration from Indian Olympic boxer Mary Kom a budding Kashmiri pugilist is breaking all stereotypes in the state.
'As I suspected I had way way too much clothing which you would never know from what I actually wear' says Mitali Saran.